Assessment of Motivation in Online Learning Environment

previous approaches, most of them based on Keller’s ARCS model, 

and argues for an approach based on Social Cognitive Learning Theory

research plan includes two steps: 
1) detect the learners in danger of dropping-out based on their interaction with the system;
2) create a model of the learner’s motivation (including self-efficacy, self-regulation,
	goal orientation, attribution and perceived task characteristics) upon which intervention can be done.
	
	
assessment of motivation in two stages: 
STAGE 1 :
first, indirect assessment/observation – 
	the aim of this stage is to identify learners that are in danger
	of dropping out or giving up as early as possible using unobtrusive observation methods; 
STAGE 2 :
second, explicit elicitation: 
	in order to inform a personalized and suitable intervention, the system would explicitly explore and 
	verify the learners’ motivational level (self-efficacy, self-regulation, goal orientation, attribution, perceived
	characteristics of the task etc).
	
motivation from observational cues – like mimics, posture, gesture, conversational cues etc. 
which are difficult to be processed by adaptive systems
much of rsrch is directed towards finding a way to assess motivation from cues that can be easily
processed automatically (e.g. learner’s interactions with the system, time spent on a
task, his/her statements about his/her level of motivation etc.).

Three previous works
related to Keller’s ARCS model (Keller, 1987), briefly presented here: 
	ARCS stands
	for Attention, Relevance, Confidence and Satisfaction. 
	Gaining and retaining the learner’s attention is necessary for an efficient learning, 
	relevance (of the learning content) is a condition for attention and motivation, 
	confidence determines the level of effort invested in learning and 
	satisfaction refers to the reward gained from the learning experience
1)	by de Vicente & Pain (2003)
	proposed several rules to infer motivational states from two sources: the interactions
	of the students with the tutoring system and their motivational traits
2)	by Qu, Wang & Johnson (2005)
	infers three aspects of motivation – confidence, confusion and effort from several sources: the learner’s
	focus of attention, the current task and expected time to perform the task
	low confidence, high confusion and low effort :::: strong indicators of the student giving up
3)  by Zhang, Cheng, He& Huang (2003)
	also started from ARCS model and assessed two of
	the model’s variables: attention and confidenc
All three approaches focus on motivational states and a way to measure them
without asking the learner

The assessment of motivation classically includes either
observation or self-report or both. 

The idea of getting a system to do what humans do is a goal that seems quite far – at least when we talk about emotions, feelings,
motivation and will. And as these aspects are important for learning, they need to be
taken into consideration.

Hence :
our approach for the assessment of motivation is based on Social Cognitive Learning Theory and 
especially related to self-efficacy (SE) and selfregulation (SR) concepts.

SE :
as the confidence that the individual has in his/her ability to control his/her thoughts, feelings and actions;
more specifically, it refers to a person’s belief/ expectancy in his/her capacity to successfully complete a task.

SR :
control his/her actions
“those processes (…) that enable an individual to guide his/her goal-directed activities over time and across
changing circumstances (contexts)”

Phase 1: the prediction of drop-outs
	Factors in the Learning Behavior Can Predict Drop-Out?
		Rather than directly inferring particular motivational states from the observed behavior, we propose to use behavioral cues as indicators
		that can predict the giving-up risk.
		These indicators related to the concept of SR include: 
		a) browsing fast rather than reading, skipping sections, non-systematic progression, 
		and answering questions quickly (in less time than the minimum required time for at least reading the questions). 
		b) Another indicator is how often and how insistent the learner seeks for help from peers/instructor. 
		c) Also if the learner is searching external content for a related topic it may be a sign of getting lost in the
		course content; it may also be a sign of an elaboration cognitive strategy
		
		most intuitive and easy to use indicator is time
			de Vicente & Pain (2003) used it to infer confidence or lack of interest, 
			while Qu, Wang & Johnson (2005) used it to infer effort.
			
		We use time as a general indicator of drop-out risk:
			a too short or a too long focus on an issue may indicate “problems”. Of course, both
			could be due to other factors: a too short time spent on a task might be explained by a
			good knowledge and exceeding time could be justified by factors like breaks or deep
			thought. These situations can be clarified by asking the learner
Phase 2: dialog-based creation of learner model.

	The next step after spotting the learners in danger of giving-up is interacting with
	them in order to identify the ones really in danger (as situations like the ones
	mentioned above can occur) and engage them in a dialog in order to explicitly elicit
	information about their motivation and build a learner model


	The dialog deals with the following aspects: a) Inform and explain the learner about
the dialog: the learners identified to be in danger of giving up will be informed by the
system that it has noticed some “confusing” behavior and informs the learner about
the next questions that he/she will be asked in order to identify “the problem”; b) Ask
the learners about their SE, SR, goal-orientation (GO), attribution of their
performance and perceived characteristics of the task at hand.

To elicit the level of SE, SR and GO, adapted versions of existing questionnaires
will be used.


Social Cognitive Learning Theory offers a frame for a deep knowledge of a learner’s
motivation and several possibilities for intervention. It can, thus, serve as a sound
theoretical basis for assessment of motivation in online learning environments.









