Review of previous research on motivation assessment in e-Learning systems is presented, 
and finally 
suggestions of how to assess the learner’s motivation during a learning activity in a WBEL system

The Internet has provided various ways of learning delivery where the web can be used as a medium for education such as 
Web-Based E-Learning (WBEL), Adaptive Hypermedia, and Intelligent Tutoring Systems.

In an e-learning system, information can be delivered in two different methods. 
The first is the asynchronous method where students can acquire knowledge at any time and in any place; 
	they can learn following their own pace. 
	The most popular forms of asynchronous e-learning are instructional websites, email, and forum. 
The second is the synchronous method where the teacher and the student interact in real time, 
	which include real-time web chats and video conferences
	
motivation is regarded as one of the important factors that drive student‘s performance

One important challenge in asynchronous communication is drop-out rates that tend to be higher than in face-to-face settings, since learners 
often feel isolated and levels of learning interactivity are often considered trivial

However, while in tradition-al face-to-face learning and synchronous e-learning, teachers have direct contact with the learner, 
thus being able to analyze the learner‘s whole behavior and thus can infer his/her motiva-tional state.
But in the context of asynchronous e-learning (e.g. WBEL) motivation detection is a more challenging process [9]. 
Information about the motivational state of the learner would allow tailoring content and enhancing the motivation of the learner.

There are two types of learner‘s motivation detection model in these researches; 
1) one of these types is applicable for research purpose only 
	such as Derbali and colleagues researches [10, 11] where they try to use some sensors to assess learner‘s motivation, 
2) and the other type may be applicable for the purpose of motivation detection in e-learning systems 
	such as de Vicente [12] motiva-tion model, del Soldato [13] motivational tactics, and Qu and Johnson [14] motivational states modeling
	
a need for having effective web based e-learning systems that can assess learner‘s motivation in real time.


Motivational Theories
Eccles and Wigfield [17] see the study of motivation as the study of action. 
For example, a stu-dent who studies hard may be described as highly moti-vated‘, while a student who is lowly motivated‘ may not study hard. 
Thus it seems that motivation can have an influ-ence on student‘s behavior


several attempts that try to categorize these theories.

1) According to Weiner there are 2 main types of motivational theories: mechanistic theories and theories based on a cognitive approach.
	1.1 Mechanistic theories 
		are based on the idea that a human works as a machine where their motivation is based on needs, drives and instincts.
	1.2 Cognitive theories 
		human motivation is based on thoughts and beliefs, therefore, they have choices with regards to their ac-tions
2) Eccles and Wigfield [17] classify motivational theories into four categories.
	2.1 focuses on beliefs about competence and expectancy for success (self-efficacy theory and control theories).
	2.2 focuses on the rea-sons why individuals engage in different activities; 
	2.3 combines expectancy and value constructs (attribution theory, modern expectancy-value theo-ries, self-worth theory)
	2.4 describes links between motivational and cognitive process

Methaneethorn [18] states that these motivation theories focus on identifying factors that are likely to influence motivation, 
and different theories focus on different factors


the theory of motivation that has been widely accepted by researchers in the e-learning field is that of Keller [20].
Keller created a theory of motivation and also, built a model named as Keller‘s ARCS [21] to design and incorporate motivation in 
instruction. The acronym ARCS is derived from four categories of motivational factors Attention, Relevance, Confidence, and Satisfaction.

ARCS:
Attention:
	Attention (interest), which refers to gaining attention, building curiosity, and sustaining active engagement in the learning activity.
	three sub-level categories: 
		perceptual arousal, inquiry arousal, and variability.
Relevance:
	which includes concepts and strategies that es-tablish connections between the instructional environment and the learners‘ needs and wants
	three sub-level categories: 
		goal orientation, motive matching, and familiarity
Confidence:
	which incorporates variables re-lated to students‘ feelings of personal control and expectancy for success
	three sub-level categories: 
		learn-ing requirements, success opportunities, and personal control.
Satisfaction:
	which comes from being able to see the impact of learn-ing
	three sub-level categories: 
		natural con-sequences, positive consequences, and equity
		
		
In WBEL this time variables can be measured easily by tracking learner activity.
In this way, the barriers(range may be identi fied by the teacher (e.g. minimum and maximum time to per-form the task)) imposed by the need 
of the range for time variables may dis-appear in the WBEL environmen


This paper proposes that motivation can be assessed in WBEL in real time by taking into consideration motivational factors such as: 
confidence, effort, and engagement

how these factors can be assessed is presented :
Modeling Confidence
	According to De Vicente [27] confidence refers to ―the stu-dent‘s belief in being able to perform the task at hand correctly
	In e-learning, student confidence/competence was meas-ured using self reports questionnaire and dialog based interac-tion.
	Although this way may be very good to infer learn-er‘s confidence level, it‘s too boring to answer questionnaires frequently.

	According to Del Soldato [13], less confident learners are likely to: 
	1) Avoid tasks perceived as difficult; or 
		detected by interaction between the tutor and the student such as present the student with options of answers that explicitly
		mention the difficulty of the task (e.g. ―No, thanks, it is too difficult‖, ―I prefer an easier problem
	2) Give up a task before attempting to perform it
		Possibility of student giving up can be defined in terms of help requests and the number of steps in the problem solving process.	
		
	Time is a good indicator of student confidence but it‘s not always accurate, 
	for example if learner takes less time in performing task it‘s an indicator of high confidence but maybe the opposite is true;
	he/she rushing because the task is too difficult and he/she have low confidence.
	Therefore we need to ask the learner about his level of confidence.

	Qu and Johnson [14] state that there are three major sources of information for a human tutor to infer learner‘s confidence: 
	1) the learner‘s hesitancy in performing actions after reading the tutorial; 
	2) the history of task performance (for example, how many tasks the learner has successfully completed.); and 
	3) the frequency of the learner‘s requests for help on certain tasks. 
		For example, if the learners perform the task after read-ing the tutorial without much hesitancy, this implies that they must have 
		high confidence.
		
	we propose to use the time variable as indicators for student confidence combined with other indicators such as help requests 
	and the number of steps in the problem solving process. 
	Additionally dialog based interaction may be used in more complicated situation.

Modeling Effort

	According to De Vicente [27] effort refers to the amount of work that the student is doing in order to perform the learning activities.
	De Vicente used the level of student giving up and student performance as indicators for student effort level
	
	Del Soldato [13] tries to classifying students‘ effort as a function of their persistence to solve the problem and
	requests for help to perform the task. 
		he assumed that persistence to solve the problem can be measured through the number of attempts to get a solution, 
		or steps performed, so that many steps reflects a greater degree of effort from the student. 
		
		In addition to the number of steps performed, a student who requests hints from the tutor or accepts help offered by the tutor 
		spends less effort than students who try to perform the task on their own.
		
	propose to use the time variable such as time spent on the task as indicators for student effort while other indicators 
	such as the number of attempts to complete a task and requests for help to perform the task may also be combined as indicators.

Modelling Engagement
	Cocea proposed to use behavioral cues detection as indicators for disengage-ment such as 
	browsing fast rather than reading, 
	skipping sec-tions, 
	non-systematic progression, and 
	answering questions quickly (in less time than the minimum required time for at least reading the questions).
	
	propose to use cues as indicators for en-gagement/disengagement to include browsing fast rather than reading, skipping sections, and
	time to perform the task or answering the questions.












