randomized controlled trials within ASSISTments, 
	an online adaptive tutoring system that provides students with immediate feedback and teachers with powerful assessment.

2 facets of my research: 
	compelling aspects of adaptive tutoring systems is their ability to provide students with feedback at critical moments to optimize learning gains.
	
	the optimization of feedback delivery and 
		problem:
			a) Disengagement With Feedback.
				both questions and feedback have traditionally been presented using rich text.
				In some cases, the feedback is too dense, too simplistic, or otherwise boring.
			b) Maladaptive Usage of Feedback
				In other cases, students are deterred from the appropriate use of feedback because 
				the system records binary correctness on their first attempt or action when solving a problem.
				This can create an environment in which students avoid feedback due to the potential for penalization
							           or instead, overuse feedback if they have already lost credit (i.e.,jumping to the answer rather than reading through a series of hints).
			Disengaging feedback and maladaptive practices surrounding the use of feedback reduce the likelihood
			of robust learning.
		sol:
			a) Enhancing Feedback through Video and Partial Credit.
			According to Mayer’s multimedia principles for the optimal design of e-Learning environments, 
			it is possible to use hypermedia elements (i.e., video) to promote active learning while reducing cognitive load
			systems that make use of video tend to do so in a manner that resembles lecturing (i.e., Khan Academy) 
			rather than content specific feedback. 
				a novel approach is taken to embed brief (15-30 second) video snippets as feedback within the ASSISTments platform.
			b) data mining has revealed that partial credit scoring would help 
			to alleviate the maladaptive usage of feedback, serving to motivate student performance 
			while simultaneously offering teachers a more robust view of student knowledge.
		result:
			a) a randomized controlled trial comparing video and text feedback within the realm of middle school mathematics 
			Results suggested a significant effect of video feedback, showing enhanced performance on questions following
			adaptive video tutoring, as well as increased efficiency in problem solving. 
			Further, the majority of students self-reported video as a positive addition to their assignment.
			--Additional research has since investigated the specific elements of feedback delivery (i.e., audio, graphical, textual) 
			using motivational feedback delivered via a pedagogical agent
			b) data mining approaches to develop and refine multiple models of partial credit scoring
		Next Steps:
			Next steps for the ASSISTments platform include the development of a contextual K-armed bandit
			algorithm that will learn how and when to provide optimal feedback for each student.

	the provision of student autonomy
		problem:
			ASSISTments is built largely around assessment, putting teachers in control of assignments and
			leaving students with little say (a traditional approach to education). 
			However, the
			platform offers untapped opportunities to examine the motivational effect of choice.

			Results suggested that even if feedback was not ultimately utilized, students who were prompted
			to choose their feedback medium significantly outperformed those who were not.