paper presents a model 
	-for pedagogical agents to use the learner’s attention to detect motivation factors of the learner
	-based on observations from human tutors
	-to create pedagogical agents that are able to interact with learners in more socially appropriate ways, sensitive
		to rules of politeness and etiquette and able to influence the learner motivational as well
		as cognitive state
	
A Bayesian model is used to combine evidence from 
	the learner’s eye gaze 
	and  +
	interface actions 
	= to infer the learner’s focus of attention.

plan recognizer uses (has capability for interpreting the learner’s actions and forming expectations of future actions.)
	learner’s focus of attention.
	+
	information about the learner’s activities
	= detect the learner’s motivation factors such as degree of confidence, confusion and effort.
	

Description of Model
	• The focus of attention model takes input from the WebTutor interface, the VFTS
	interface and Agent interface as well as eye gaze information, in order to infer
	learner focus of attention.
	• The detection model calculates the learner motivational factors based on outputs
	from focus of attention model and plan recognizer.

3.1 Tracking Learner Focus of Attention Under Uncertainty
	The agent uses two types of information to infer the learner’s focus: 
	(1) information with certainty, i.e., mouse click, type and scroll window events in VFTS, WebTutor and
	Agent Window, and 
	(2) information with uncertainty, namely data from eye track
	program and inferences about current state based upon past events. 

	Then agents use
	Dynamic Bayesian Networks (DBNs) to infer the learner’s focus of attention based on
	various sources of information.
	
3.2 Plan Recognition System
	To help pedagogical agents track learner activities, we need to be able to track the
	learner’s actions as well as track the learner’s focus. We developed a plan recognition
	system to track learner actions and progress.

3.3 Utilizing Focus of Attention
	There are many factors that influence learner’s motivation.
	focus here on the
	learner’s confidence, confusion and effort,( factors that were shown to be important in the background tutor studies.)
	• Confidence represents the confidence of learners in solving problems in the
	learning environment. The learner’s confidence is modeled as one of three levels:
	High, Normal and Low.
	• Confusion reflects the learner’s failing to understand the tutorial or deicide how
	to proceed in the VFTS. A learner with high confusion is most likely to be stuck
	or frustrated.
	• Effort is the duration of time that the learner spends on performing tasks. It is an
	important indicator of intrinsic motivation in learners, and expert human tutors
	often praise learners for expending effort even when they are not successful.

BASELINE				Confidence			Confusion		Effort
With the human
tutor's observation		 82% 				76.8% 			 76.3% 
With the learner’s 
self-reports			70.7%, 				75.6% 			 73.2% 










